Refreshing the writing policies in Go tutorial. (#322)
kubewarden/docs: docs/writing-policies/go/07-automate.md

---
sidebar_label: GitHub Actions
title: Integrating with GitHub Actions
description: Integrating with GitHub actions when developing policies for Kubewarden in Go.
keywords: [kubewarden, kubernetes, github, integration]
doc-type: [tutorial]
doc-topic: [kubewarden, writing-policies, golang, github-action-integration]
doc-persona: [kubewarden-developer]
---

## Automation

This section describes how you can use GitHub Actions to automate tasks.

The project scaffolding already includes all the GitHub actions you need.
You can find the Actions in the `.github/workflows/test.yml` and `.github/workflows/release.yml` files.

You can adapt these principles to use a different CI system.

## Testing

Automation of the unit tests and of the end-to-end tests works out of the box.
It uses the jobs defined in `.github/workflows/test.yml`.

## Release

The project scaffolding has a `release` job in `.github/workflows/release.yml`.

This job performs the following steps:

- Checkout code
- Build the WebAssembly policy
- Push the policy to an Open Container Initiative (OCI) registry
- Create a new GitHub Release

> To enable the job, adjust the `oci-target` action in `release.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the job, adjust the `oci-target` input for the reusable workflow (`reusable-release-policy-go.yml`) called in `release.yml` file.
```

Author: Ok, incorporated. Thanks.

---
sidebar_label: GitHub Actions
title: Integrating with GitHub Actions
description: Integrating with GitHub actions when developing policies for Kubewarden in Go.
keywords: [kubewarden, kubernetes, github, integration]
doc-type: [tutorial]
doc-topic: [kubewarden, writing-policies, golang, github-action-integration]
doc-persona: [kubewarden-developer]
---

## Automation

This section describes how you can use GitHub Actions to automate tasks.

The project scaffolding already includes all the GitHub actions you need.
You can find the Actions in the `.github/workflows/ci.yml.template` file.
Rename it to `.github/workflows.ci/yml` to enable them.

You can adapt these principles to use a different CI system.

## Testing

Automation of the unit tests and of the end-to-end tests works out of the box.

> It uses the `unit-tests` and `e2e-tests` jobs defined in `.github/workflows/ci.yml.template`.

Reviewer: Actually, the go policy template already came with two files [`test.yml` ](https://github.com/kubewarden/go-policy-template/blob/main/.github/workflows/test.yml)and `release.yml`. There is no need for rename the files. Furthermore, they make use of our github [actions](https://github.com/kubewarden/github-actions/blob/main/.github/workflows/reusable-test-policy-go.yml) that runs the linters and call `make test` and `make e2e-tests`.

Author: Adjusted, thanks.

## Release

The project scaffolding has a `release` job in `.github/workflows/ci.yml.template`.

This job performs the following steps:

- Checkout code
- Build the WebAssembly policy
- Push the policy to an Open Container Initiative (OCI) registry
- Create a new GitHub Release

> 

Author: Adjusted, thanks.

> To enable the job, rename it to `ci.yml` and change the value of the `OCI_TARGET` to match your preferences.

Reviewer: This is still required. But in a different way. As the files uses our github actions, the policy author need to change the [`oci-target`](https://github.com/kubewarden/go-policy-template/blob/ffef5e548495d9688d694316a4566dcf9ec88bec/.github/workflows/release.yml#L28) input used by the action

Author: Adjusted, thanks.

      OCI_TARGET: ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/safe-labels
```

Pushing a tag named `v0.1.0` leads to the creation and publishing of the
OCI artifact called `ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/safe-labels:v0.1.0`.

It creates a GitHub release named `Release v0.1.0`.
The release includes the following assets:

- Source code compressed as `zip` and `tar.gz`

> - A file named `policy.wasm`; this is the actual WebAssembly policy

Reviewer: I think we need to rework the example section. This is using the old approch. Using the current reusable workflows, we should need to change the input for the `kubewarden/github-actions/.github/workflows/reusable-release-policy-go.yml` workflow. Take a look on this example from the `safe-labels` policy:

```yaml 
on:
  push:
    branches:
    - main
    tags:
    - 'v*'

name: Release policy

jobs:

  test:
    name: run tests and linters
    uses: kubewarden/github-actions/.github/workflows/reusable-test-policy-go.yml@v3.1.11

  release:
    needs: test
    permissions:
      # Required to create GH releases
      contents: write
      # Required to push to GHCR
      packages: write
      # Required by cosign keyless signing
      id-token: write

    uses: kubewarden/github-actions/.github/workflows/reusable-release-policy-go.yml@v3.1.11
    with:
      oci-target: ghcr.io/${{ github.repository_owner }}/policies/safe-labels #note here. This is line that requires a  change
```
This yaml came from [here](https://github.com/kubewarden/safe-labels-policy/blob/main/.github/workflows/release.yml). I think we can just copy it. Or copy only the call of the `kubewarden/github-actions/.github/workflows/reusable-release-policy-go.yml` workflow

Author: So which? Further suggestions?

Reviewer 2: I think I prefer the current approach that only pushes the policy to an OCI registry. Using the reusable workflow is opaque to newcomers, and we do things there that aren't actually explained (e.g: signing, artifacthub) and are explained in ./distributing-policies.md.

@jvanz wdyt?

Reviewer: Fair enough. I agree with @viccuad. Let's keep the current approach.
